
Can static method override,
- No, we cannot override static methods because method overriding is based on dynamic binding at runtime and the static methods are bonded using static binding at compile time. So, we cannot override static methods.

what happens when we make constructor private.
- Yes, we can declare a constructor as private. If we declare a constructor as private we are not able to create an object outside of a class . We can use this private constructor in the Singleton Design Pattern

- A private constructor does not allow a class to be subclassed.
A private constructor does not allow to create an object outside the class.
If all the constant methods are there in our class we can use a private constructor.
If all the methods are static then we can use a private constructor.
If we try to extend a class which is having private constructor compile time error will occur.

What when we define constuctor in interface
No, you cannot have a constructor within an interface in Java.

You can have only public, static, final variables and, public, abstract, methods as of Java7.

From Java8 onwards interfaces allow default methods and static methods.

From Java9 onwards interfaces allow private and private static methods.
I
n short, it does not accept methods without return type in an interface. If you add return type to the MyInterface() method then it is considered as a normal method and the program gets compiled without errors.

 The variable in an interface is public, static, and final by default.

🔔 If any variable in an interface is defined without public, static, and final keywords then, the compiler automatically adds the same.

🔔 No access modifier is allowed except the public for interface variables.

🔔 Every variable of an interface must be initialized in the interface itself.

🔔 The class that implements an interface can not modify the interface variable, but it may use as it defined in the interface.

Comparable vs comparator
comaprable default natural sorting, java.lang. only comparTO method
as comparator cutom sorting, java.util package, two method compare and equals

how garbage collection happen


when to use runnable and extends thread.


JWT Oauth - How your application provide security


Hibernate callback
How to avoid dirty read in database

what is contract between hashcode and equals method

Levels of classloader
prefix and suffix in java8
how to remove duplicates from list of object.
Path vs Classpath
Identity Hashmap
linkedHashmap vs concurrent hashmap.
5 Random numbers in list with stream
spring modules

Drawback of Autowired
How to handle transaction in microservices
How to provide security in microservice
Hashmap vs treemap
Finalized
why we use default method
stream intermediate and terminal methods
Lazy loading
Java 8 Date api
object methods.
redis performance tuning
redis poulating data
message queue
throws vs throw
lazy loading 
what is ORM in Hibernate
View in sql
indexing
can their be two foreign key
Transaction
How to synchronise producer and consumer in thread 
Future in Thread
Http status codes
what is hascode method being used
what does springboot application annotation 

how to know how many objects of class is created.
get second highest salary of employee usdoesing stream. and sql
how to make class immutable
parallem stream
concurrent hashmap

How transaction work 
how to configure two databases
how to do pagination in spring boot
how synchronisation works in multithreading
lifecycle of thead

what is throwable
what is diff bet throw and throwable
how to create custom checked exception
how to make class as immutable

when to use abstract method and interface
can two interface with  different default method definition and same signature implemented in class

second highest salary in sql
spring vs spring boot
authentication vs authorization
different way to deploy application in spring boot

public class A
{
String print()
{
sysout("")
}
}

public class B extends class A
{
Object print()
{
sysout("");
}
}

==========================

How to keep redis state after restart
Starr vs run method
How to stop all thread after completing job 
What method is used to register thread
How to callback bean
How to give exception in spring boot
How to read redis data 
Can thread access two methids at time
What is throw and throws
Facade design patterns


Mongo lazy load


classloader in java
memory managment
m+1 problem
Authentication and Authorisation

synchronise hashmap vs concurrent hashmap
put vs post
controller vs restcontroller
how to use profile 
flatmap vs map
comparator in java 8 


No, you cannot make an abstract class or method final in Java 
Abstract claas cannot be instantiated

Hashmap

It uses equals() method of the Object class to compare keys. The equals() method of Map class overrides it.	
Hashmap is faster

Treemap
It uses the compareTo() method to compare keys.
Treemap is used for natural order sorting
Treemap slower than hashmap


Synchronised hashmap
Slower
It locks whole operation


Concurrent hashmap
Faster
Thread Locks for add/update but get operation can perform by multiple threads

Data hiding vs abstraction
Stack vs heap
Class loader
