Java Streams::
Write a Java program to calculate the average of a list of integers using streams.
Write a Java program to convert a list of strings to uppercase or lowercase using streams.
Write a Java program to calculate the sum of all even, odd numbers in a list using streams.
Write a Java program to remove all duplicate elements from a list using streams.
Write a Java program to count the number of strings in a list that start with a specific letter using streams.
Write a Java program to sort a list of strings in alphabetical order, ascending and descending using streams.
Write a Java program to find the maximum and minimum values in a list of integers using streams.
Write a Java program to find the second smallest and largest elements in a list of integers using streams.

Java String::
1.Write a Java program to get the character at the given index within the string.
Original String = Java Exercises!                                                                             
The character at position 0 is J                                                                              
The character at position 10 is i 
2.Write a Java program to get the character (Unicode code point) at the given index within the string.
Original String : w3resource.com                                                                              
Character(unicode point) = 51                                                                                 
Character(unicode point) = 101 
3.Write a Java program to get the character (Unicode code point) before the specified index within the string.
Original String : w3resource.com                                                                              
Character(unicode point) = 119                                                                                
Character(unicode point) = 99
4.Write a Java program to check whether two String objects contain the same data.
"Stephen Edwin King" equals "Walter Winchell"? false                                                          
"Stephen Edwin King" equals "Mike Royko"? false
5.Write a Java program to compare a given string to another string, ignoring case considerations.
"Stephen Edwin King" equals "Walter Winchell"? false                                                          
"Stephen Edwin King" equals "stephen edwin king"? true 
6.Write a Java program to print the current date and time in the specified format.
Current Date and Time :                                                                                       
June 19, 2017                                                                                                 
3:13 pm
7.Write a Java program to get the contents of a given string as a byte array.
The new String equals This is a sample String.
8.Write a Java program to create a distinct identifier for a given string.
The hash for Python Exercises. is 863132599
