What is Java String Pool?
Java String Pool is a pool of unique strings stored in the Java heap memory. When you create a string using double quotes
 (e.g., String str = "Hello";), Java checks if the string already exists in the pool. 
 If it does, the existing reference is returned; otherwise, a new string is created in the pool.

Explain different data types in Java.
Java has two categories of data types: primitive and reference types. 
Primitive data types include byte, short, int, long, float, double, char, and boolean. 
Reference data types include classes, interfaces, arrays, and enumerations.

What is a Class Variable?
A class variable, also known as a static variable, is a variable that belongs to the class rather than any instance of the class. 
It is shared among all instances of the class.

What is the default value stored in Local Variables?
Local variables in Java are not initialized by default and must be assigned a value before use. 
Accessing an uninitialized local variable will result in a compilation error.

Explain the difference between instance variable and a class variable.
Instance variables are variables declared within a class but outside any method, constructor, or block. 
Each instance of the class has its own copy of instance variables. Class variables, on the other hand, are 
declared with the static keyword within a class and are shared among all instances of the class.

What is a static variable?
A static variable, also known as a class variable, is a variable that belongs to the class rather than any instance of the class. 
It is shared among all instances of the class.

What are different methods of Object class?
Some commonly used methods of the Object class in Java are toString(), equals(), hashCode(), getClass(), finalize(), and clone().

What’s the difference between the methods sleep() and wait()?
The sleep() method is used to pause the execution of the current thread for a specified amount of time. 
The wait() method, on the other hand, is used for inter-thread communication and causes the current thread to wait until 
another thread notifies it or a specified amount of time elapses.

What are the differences between String and StringBuffer?
Strings in Java are immutable, meaning their values cannot be changed once they are created. 
StringBuffer is a mutable sequence of characters and allows for dynamic changes.

What are the differences between StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
StringBuffer is synchronized, making it thread-safe, whereas StringBuilder is not synchronized 
and therefore not thread-safe. StringBuilder typically has better performance in single-threaded scenarios.

What is a Marker Interface?
A marker interface in Java is an interface with no methods. It serves as a tag to inform the 
compiler or runtime environment about the behavior of the implementing class. Examples include Serializable and Cloneable.

What is a singleton class in Java? And How to implement a singleton class?
A singleton class in Java is a class that can have only one instance at a time. 
To implement a singleton class, you typically make the constructor private to prevent instantiation from 
outside the class and provide a static method that returns the instance of the class.

Difference between ArrayList and LinkedList
ArrayList internally uses a dynamic array to store elements, allowing for fast random access but 
slower insertion and deletion. LinkedList, on the other hand, uses a doubly-linked list, providing fast insertion 
and deletion but slower random access.

Difference between HashMap and ConcurrentHashMap
HashMap is not thread-safe and can lead to a ConcurrentModificationException if modified concurrently. ConcurrentHashMap
 is a thread-safe version of HashMap designed for concurrent use without external synchronization.

Internal working of HashMap
HashMap internally uses an array of linked lists or a tree (in Java 8 and later) to store key-value pairs. 
The hash code of the keys is used to determine the index of the array where the key-value pair should be stored.

Difference between equals and hashCode
The equals() method is used to compare the contents of two objects for equality, typically overridden to 
provide custom equality checks. The hashCode() method returns a hash code value for the object, used by hash-based data 
structures like HashMap for efficient storage and retrieval.

Different types of annotations
Annotations in Java can be categorized into built-in annotations like @Override, @Deprecated, and @SuppressWarnings, 
and custom annotations defined by users.

Use of @ComponentScan annotation
@ComponentScan annotation is used in Spring Framework to automatically scan and register Spring beans 
(components, services, repositories, etc.) within a specified package and its sub-packages.

Difference between Controller and RestController
In Spring MVC, a Controller handles traditional web requests and returns a view (HTML page). 
A RestController, on the other hand, is specialized for handling RESTful requests and returns data (typically in JSON or XML format) 
rather than a view.

Package structure of microservice
The package structure of a microservice architecture typically follows a modular approach, organizing code into
 packages based on functionality or domain. Common packages might include controllers, services, repositories, models, configurations, 
 and utilities.

Difference between PUT and PATCH
PUT is used to update a resource completely, replacing the existing resource with the new one. 
PATCH is used to apply partial modifications to a resource, updating only the specified fields.

What is a Trigger?
A trigger is a database object that automatically executes a specified action (such as insert, update, delete) 
in response to certain database events (such as data manipulation operations on a table).

What are indexes?
Indexes are database objects used to improve the speed of data retrieval operations on database tables by 
providing fast access to rows based on the values of certain columns.

What is a stored procedure?
A stored procedure is a prepared SQL code that can be saved in the database and reused. It consists of a 
series of SQL statements and procedural logic, which can be executed by calling the procedure name.

Lifecycle of Hibernate object?
The lifecycle of a Hibernate object consists of several states: transient (newly created but not associated with any session), 
persistent (associated with a session and has a corresponding row in the database), 
detached (previously associated with a session but not currently), and removed (marked for deletion).

Find 2nd highest salary in SQL?
SELECT DISTINCT Salary FROM Employees ORDER BY Salary DESC LIMIT 1 OFFSET 1;


How to assign a value to each enum object, such as month number on a Month enum?
public enum Month {
    JANUARY(1), FEBRUARY(2), MARCH(3), APRIL(4), MAY(5), JUNE(6), JULY(7), AUGUST(8), SEPTEMBER(9), OCTOBER(10),  NOVEMBER(11), DECEMBER(12);

    private final int number;

    public Month (int number) {
        this.number = number;
    }

    public int getNumber() {
        return number;
    }
}

What difference between java 8 and java 17?
Java 8 introduced major features like lambda expressions, the Stream API, default methods in interfaces, 
and the java.time package. Java 17, being a later version, includes various improvements and new features
 like sealed classes, pattern matching, and more efficient garbage collection.


What is UUID and its uses?
UUID (Universally Unique Identifier) is a 128-bit unique identifier standardized by RFC 4122. 
It's commonly used to uniquely identify information without needing a central authority to generate IDs. 
It's often used in databases, distributed systems, and various other scenarios where unique identification is needed.


What is lambda expression?
Lambda expressions in Java are a concise way to represent anonymous functions, i.e., functions without a name. 
They enable you to treat functionality as a method argument or create simple, inline implementations of functional interfaces.


Can we define multiple abstract method in functional interface?
No, a functional interface in Java can have only one abstract method. This is enforced by the @FunctionalInterface annotation.
 Adding more abstract methods would violate the contract of a functional interface.


Can we add multiple non abstract method in functional interface?
Yes, you can add multiple non-abstract methods (default methods) to a functional interface without breaking 
its functionality as long as it has only one abstract method.


Have ever used try with resource in your applicaiton? What is used of that?
The try-with-resources statement in Java automatically closes resources like streams, files, etc., 
after they are no longer needed, even if an exception is thrown. This ensures that resources are properly released 
without needing explicit finally blocks.


What at is the use of transient keyword?
The transient keyword in Java is used to indicate that a field should not be serialized when the object containing
 it is serialized. This is useful when you have fields that should not be persisted or transmitted.


What are the disadvantages of serialization?
Some disadvantages of serialization include:
Performance overhead
Tight coupling between the serialized format and the object structure
Security concerns (serialization can be used for malicious purposes if not properly handled)


Is hashMap thread safe and synchrons?
No, HashMap is not thread-safe. However, you can make it thread-safe by using Collections.synchronizedMap(new HashMap<>())
 or by using ConcurrentHashMap.


What is stack memory and heap memory?
Stack memory is used for static memory allocation and is responsible for keeping track of method invocations and local variables.
Heap memory is used for dynamic memory allocation and is where objects and their instance variables are stored.


How to create immutable class?
To create an immutable class in Java, follow these steps:
Declare the class as final so it cannot be subclassed.
Declare all fields as final and private.
Don't provide setter methods.
Ensure that any mutable fields are defensively copied in the constructor.
Don't expose mutable objects directly; instead, return defensive copies.


If you want String as a mutable then what you can use?
Instead of using mutable String, you can use StringBuilder or StringBuffer for mutable string manipulation.


How you provided security to your spring boot applicaiton?
Security in Spring Boot applications is often implemented using Spring Security. You can configure authentication, authorization, 
and other security features using Spring Security's extensive configuration options.


Any idea how to implement spring security?
Spring Security can be implemented by configuring security filters, authentication providers, and authorization rules in the
 application's configuration. You can use various authentication mechanisms like form-based authentication, OAuth, JWT, etc.,
 based on your requirements.


What are design patterns you know?
Some common design patterns include Singleton, Factory, Builder, Observer, Strategy, Adapter, Decorator, and many more. 
These patterns provide solutions to recurring design problems in software development.


What is builder design pattern?
The Builder pattern is a creational design pattern that separates the construction of a complex object from its representation,
 allowing the same construction process to create different representations. It's useful when an object has many optional parameters
 or a complex construction process.


What are the different design pattern?
Design patterns are broadly categorized into three categories: creational, structural, and behavioral patterns. Some examples 
include Singleton, Factory Method, Abstract Factory, Adapter, Composite, Observer, Strategy, and many more.


What is the use of restController annotation?
In Spring, the @RestController annotation is used to annotate classes that define RESTful controller endpoints. It combines 
@Controller and @ResponseBody, indicating that the return value of the methods should be serialized directly to the HTTP response body.


How response will convert to json from API?
In Spring Boot, response objects are automatically serialized to JSON using libraries like Jackson. You don't need to do 
anything special to convert responses to JSON as long as your controller methods return POJOs or collections.


What is use of service annotation?
The @Service annotation in Spring is used to annotate classes that perform service tasks. It's a specialization of the 
@Component annotation and is used to identify beans as service components in the application context.


What is the use of componant annotation?
The @Component annotation in Spring is a generic stereotype annotation used to designate a class as a Spring component. 
Spring components are beans managed by the Spring IoC container.


What are the different type of rest APIs?
REST APIs can be categorized based on their architectural style, such as:
RESTful Web Services: These follow the REST architectural principles.
SOAP Web Services: These use the SOAP protocol for communication.
GraphQL APIs: These use a query language for APIs.
RPC APIs: These use remote procedure calls for communication.


What is @Head
@Head is not a standard annotation in Spring. However, in the context of HTTP, the HEAD method is similar to GET but 
without the response body. It's often used to retrieve metadata about a resource without transferring the entire content.


What is @Trace
@Trace is not a standard annotation in Spring. However, in the context of Spring Boot Actuator, the /trace endpoint provides 
trace information about HTTP requests handled by the application.


What is difference between put and patch?
Both PUT and PATCH are HTTP methods used for updating resources. However, the main difference lies in the way they handle updates:
PUT is used to completely replace a resource or create it if it doesn't exist. The entire resource representation is provided in the request body.
PATCH is used to partially update a resource. It only updates the fields provided in the request body without affecting other fields.


What is difference between @Entity and @Table annotation?
In JPA (Java Persistence API), @Entity is used to annotate a class as an entity, indicating that it's mapped to a database table. 
On the other hand, @Table is used to provide additional details about the table to which the entity is mapped, such as the name of the table.


Which tool you used for version control?
Git is a widely used version control tool for managing source code. Other popular version control systems include Subversion (SVN),
 Mercurial, and Perforce.


If there are multiple commit in your branch and you want to merge it into single commit, Which command we used it?
To merge multiple commits into a single commit in Git, you can use the interactive rebase feature:
git rebase -i HEAD~n
Replace n with the number of commits you want to squash. Then, mark the commits you want to squash, save the file, and follow the 
instructions to complete the rebase.


Squasing of commitin git?
Squashing commits in Git refers to combining multiple commits into a single commit, usually for cleaner commit history. This is 
often done during code review or before merging a feature branch into the main branch.


What is used of git rebase?
Git's rebase command, which is used to reapply commits on top of another base tip. This can be useful for integrating changes from 
one branch into another or for cleaning up commit history.


What are the advantages of NoSql database?
Some advantages of NoSQL databases include:
Flexible schema: NoSQL databases allow for dynamic schema changes and can handle semi-structured and unstructured data well.
Scalability: NoSQL databases are often designed to scale horizontally, making them suitable for handling large amounts of data and high traffic loads.
Performance: NoSQL databases can provide high performance for specific use cases, especially those involving large-scale data storage and retrieval.
Distributed data management: Many NoSQL databases are designed to operate in distributed environments, providing fault tolerance and data replication capabilities.

Internal Working of HashMap
When we create hashMap it internally creates bucket structure, with capacity of 16. As starting capacity of hashMap is 16. From 0-16 index
the bucket is created. Each bucket internally uses linked-list. And linked list contains a list of node.
Internal structure of node consist of key, value, hash, next.

Map<String, Employee> emp = new HashMap<>();
emp.put("Shubham", new Employee(1, "Shubham", "SSE"));
emp.put("Krishna", new Employee(2, "Krishna", "SSE"));
emp.put("Tarun", new Employee(3, "Tarun", "SSE"));
emp.put("Dhruv", new Employee(4, "Dhruv", "SSE"));

put(K k, V v)
	hash(k)
	index = hash &(n-1)
uses Hashing colision if index created same for 2 entries, then it will compare both objects by equals method. If both objects has same hash
then it will replace the old entry else added new node. And update the reference in 1st node.
If we pass key as a null, then the data is stored in 0th index of the bucket.

Java 7 Compatibility
Spring Boot 1.5.x: This is the last Spring Boot version that supports Java 7.
Maven: Maven 3.2.x or later is compatible with Java 7.

Java 8 Compatibility
Spring Boot 2.x: All versions of Spring Boot 2.x support Java 8. It's recommended to use at least Spring Boot 2.1.x for better features and support.
Maven: Maven 3.3.x and later are compatible with Java 8.

Microservice design pattern ::
	API Gateway Pattern:
	Server-Side Discovery Pattern:
	Database per Service Pattern:
	Shared Database Pattern:
	Saga Pattern:
	API Gateway Security Pattern:
	

Exception Hierarchy
Collection Hierarchy
Http code 200, 400, 501, 403, 404


